IBX-5705: OAuth server (#2314)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/users/oauth_server.md

---
description: Other applications can authenticate Ibexa DXP users through OAuth2 protocol then access to their resources on the platform.
---

> # OAuth Server

Author: Done in e9d96fffd3f35921d0f6a446e4b610ce489cad4b

Client applications (such as mobile apps) are able to authenticate a user then access to this user's resources.

![OAuth2 Server](img/oauth2-server.png)

## Server installation

[[= product_name =]] Oauth2 server package is `ibexa/oauth2-server` and is not part of the default installation.
It can be installed with the following command:

```bash
composer require ibexa/oauth2-server --with-all-dependencies
```

Then, add the following pair of bundle lines to `config/bundles.php` array, like at the end of it:

```php
<?php

return [
    // A lot of bundles…
    Ibexa\Bundle\OAuth2Server\IbexaOAuth2ServerBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    League\Bundle\OAuth2ServerBundle\LeagueOAuth2ServerBundle::class => ['all' => true],
];
```

Add the tables needed by the bundle:

=== "MySQL"

    ```bash
    mysql -u <username> -p <password> <database_name> -e 'SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=0;'
    php bin/console ibexa:doctrine:schema:dump-sql vendor/ibexa/oauth2-server/src/bundle/Resources/config/schema.yaml | mysql -u <username> -p <password> <database_name>
    mysql -u <username> -p <password> <database_name> -e 'SET FOREIGN_KEY_CHECKS=1;'
    ```

=== "PostgreSQL"

>     php bin/console ibexa:doctrine:schema:dump-sql --force-platform=postgres vendor/ibexa/oauth2-server/src/bundle/Resources/config/schema.yaml | psql <database_name>

Author: Fixed in 3f1b6595b860c630d4d1ae1b4333870b1efc67ad

Tweak the values if you like.

Uncomment whole routes configuration file `config/routes/ibexa_oauth2_server.yaml`

Uncomment the three following lines about `access_control` from `config/packages/security.yaml`:

```yaml
security:
    #…

    # Uncomment authorize access control if you wish to use product as an OAuth2 Server
    access_control:
        - { path: ^/authorize/jwks$, roles: ~ }
        - { path: ^/authorize, roles: IS_AUTHENTICATED_REMEMBERED }
```

Uncomment the three following lines about `oauth2_token` from `config/packages/security.yaml`:

```yaml
security:
    #…
    firewall:
        #…

        # Uncomment oauth2_token firewall if you wish to use product as an OAuth2 Server.
        # Use oauth2 guard any other (for example ibexa_front) firewall you wish to be
        # exposed as OAuth2-available resource. Example:
        #    guard:
        #        authenticators:
        #            - Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
        oauth2_token:
            pattern: ^/token$
            security: false
```

## Resource Server configuration

To allow resource routes to be accessible through OAuth authorization,

> you must define a firewall using the `Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you must define a firewall by using `Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator`.
```

The following firewall example allows the REST API to be accessed as an OAuth resource.

> It must be before firewall with less restrictuve pattern like `ibexa_front`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It must be placed before the firewall with a less restrictive pattern like `ibexa_front`.
```

```yaml
    #…
    firewall:
        #…

        ibexa_rest_oauth:
            pattern: ^/api/ibexa/v2
            user_checker: Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\Security\UserChecker
            anonymous: ~
            guard:
                authenticators:
                    - Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
                entry_point: Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
            stateless: true

        ibexa_front:
            pattern: ^/
            #…
```

> TODO: Can it break same-domain Back Office like with [HTTP basic authentication](rest_api_authentication.md#configuration)?

Reviewer: Add information here

## Client

### Add a client

> You need the client redirect URIs to create it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need the client redirect URIs to create a client.
```

You also need to agree on an identifier and a secret with the client.
There is only one `default` [scope](https://oauth.net/2/scope/).

Use `league:oauth2-server:create-client` command to create a client.
For example:

```bash
php bin/console league:oauth2-server:create-client 'Example OAuth2 Client' example-oauth2-client 9876543210987654321098765432109876543210 --scope=default \
  --redirect-uri=https://example.com/oauth2-callback
```

> `--redirect-uri` can be used multiple time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note
   You can call `--redirect-uri` multiple times.
```

> Redirect URIs can be added after the creation with `league:oauth2-server:update-client` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you could add redirect URIs after you create a client, by using the `league:oauth2-server:update-client` command.
```

For example:

```bash
php bin/console league:oauth2-server:update-client example-oauth2-client \
  --add-redirect-uri=https://example.com/another-oauth2-callback
```

> There is also commands to list all the configured clients (`league:oauth2-server:list-clients`),
> or to delete a client (`league:oauth2-server:delete-client`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other commands let you list all the configured clients (`league:oauth2-server:list-clients`)
or delete a client (`league:oauth2-server:delete-client`).
```

> - In a terminal, see `bin/console list league:oauth2-server` for a list of all the commands to maintain your clients.
>   Use `bin/console help <command>` to usage detail for each of them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note

    For a list of all the commands that you can use maintain your clients, in a terminal, run `bin/console list league:oauth2-server`.
    To see usage details for each of the commands, run `bin/console help <command>` . 
```

> - See [package's online documentation](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-server-bundle/blob/master/docs/basic-setup.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    For more information, see the package's [online documentation](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-server-bundle/blob/master/docs/basic-setup.md).
```

> !!! note
> 
>     The `ìdentifier` and the `secret` will be needed by the client settings.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This information is duplicated in the next section

        # exposed as OAuth2-available resource. Example:
        #    guard:
        #        authenticators:
        #            - Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
        oauth2_token:
            pattern: ^/token$
            security: false
```

## Resource Server configuration

To allow resource routes to be accessible through OAuth authorization,
you must define a firewall by using `Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator`.

The following firewall example allows the REST API to be accessed as an OAuth resource.
It must be placed before the firewall with a less restrictive pattern like `ibexa_front`.

```yaml
    #…
    firewall:
        #…

        ibexa_rest_oauth:
            pattern: ^/api/ibexa/v2
            user_checker: Ibexa\Core\MVC\Symfony\Security\UserChecker
            anonymous: ~
            guard:
                authenticators:
                    - Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
                entry_point: Ibexa\OAuth2Server\Security\Guard\OAuth2Authenticator
            stateless: true

        ibexa_front:
            pattern: ^/
            #…
```

> 
> TODO: Can it break same-domain Back Office like with [HTTP basic authentication](rest_api_authentication.md#configuration)?

Author: ```suggestion
```
